README.md, before:

<h1>Awesome Grep</h1>

Grep is a command line utility that searches files for lines that match a regular expression. 

The first version of this utility appeared almost 50 years ago, in 1973. But it is still actively used and maintained (the last version was released in August 2021! https://ftp.gnu.org/gnu/grep/).

This repository contains various modifications of grep, as well as analogues of this utility for a wide variety of search tasks.



| Name             | Description             | Link.       | 
|------------------|-------------------------|-------------|
| <b>RZgrep</b>  | "Grep utility that searches through <b>zip,jar,ear,tgz,bz2</b> in any form of nesting" |  https://github.com/MoserMichael/rzgrep | 
| <b>XLSgrep</b>  | "CLI tool to search text in <b>XLSX, XLS and ODS</b> files. It works similarly to Unix/GNU Linux grep" | https://github.com/zazuum/xlsxgrep |
| <b>Hgrep</b>  | "Grep" for searching/replacement in html code | https://github.com/TUVIMEN/hgrep |
| <b>BINgrep</b>  | Grep for binaries files | https://github.com/m4b/bingrep |
| <b>Cgrep</b>  | Grep for source codes in C/C++ | https://github.com/awgn/cgrep|
| <b>Ngrep</b>  | PCAP-based tool that allows you to specify an extended regular or hexadecimal expression to match against data payloads of packets. It understands many kinds of protocols, including IPv4/6, TCP, UDP, ICMPv4/6, IGMP and Raw | https://github.com/jpr5/ngrep|
| <b>PHPgrep</b>  | Grep for PHP source code | https://github.com/quasilyte/phpgrep|
| <b>UCG (Universal Code Grep)</b> | Extremely fast grep-like tool specialized for searching large bodies of source code | https://github.com/gvansickle/ucg |
| <b>MP4grep</b>  | CLI for transcribing and searching audio/video files | https://github.com/o-oconnell/mp4grep|
| <b>Hackers Grep</b>  | Utility to search for strings in PE executables including imports, exports, and debug symbols | https://github.com/codypierce/hackers-grep |
| <b>JVgrep</b> | Grep for Japanese vimmer. You can find text from files that written in another Japanese encodings | https://github.com/mattn/jvgrep |
| <b>LiveGrep</b>  | Online grep search in Github repositories | https://livegrep.com/ | 
| <b>DNgrep</b>  | Graphical grep tool for Windows | https://github.com/dnGrep/dnGrep|
| <b>Greplace.vim</b>  | Global search and replace for VI|https://github.com/skwp/greplace.vim|
| <b>SearchInProject_SublimeText</b>  | Use ag, ack, grep and git grep directly from Sublime Text 2 and 3 | https://github.com/leonid-shevtsov/SearchInProject_SublimeText |
| <b>ACK3</b>  | grep-like Perl search tool optimized for source code | https://github.com/beyondgrep/ack3|
| <b>The Silver Searcher</b>  | Extreme grep-like C+Perl search tool for source code | https://github.com/ggreer/the_silver_searcher|
| <b>Sift</b>  | GO fast and powerfull alternative for grep | https://github.com/svent/sift |
| <b>PRU</b>  | Ruby analog for grep, sed, awk | https://github.com/grosser/pru|
| <b>BlueFlower</b> | Python grep tool for searcing in PDF, DOCX, XLSX, tar, ZIP, bzip2, gzip |https://github.com/veorq/blueflower |


<h1>Universal examples of the use of GREP</h1>

Examples of regular expressions for extracting various data from texts can be found in the repository:

https://github.com/cipher387/grep_for_osint

Commit message:

Updated README.md, added ripgrep
Added ripgrep and some info about it.

README.md, after:

<h1>Awesome Grep</h1>

Grep is a command line utility that searches files for lines that match a regular expression. 

The first version of this utility appeared almost 50 years ago, in 1973. But it is still actively used and maintained (the last version was released in August 2021! https://ftp.gnu.org/gnu/grep/).

This repository contains various modifications of grep, as well as analogues of this utility for a wide variety of search tasks.



| Name             | Description             | Link.       | 
|------------------|-------------------------|-------------|
| <b>RZgrep</b>  | "Grep utility that searches through <b>zip,jar,ear,tgz,bz2</b> in any form of nesting" |  https://github.com/MoserMichael/rzgrep | 
| <b>XLSgrep</b>  | "CLI tool to search text in <b>XLSX, XLS and ODS</b> files. It works similarly to Unix/GNU Linux grep" | https://github.com/zazuum/xlsxgrep |
| <b>Hgrep</b>  | "Grep" for searching/replacement in html code | https://github.com/TUVIMEN/hgrep |
| <b>BINgrep</b>  | Grep for binaries files | https://github.com/m4b/bingrep |
| <b>Cgrep</b>  | Grep for source codes in C/C++ | https://github.com/awgn/cgrep|
| <b>Ngrep</b>  | PCAP-based tool that allows you to specify an extended regular or hexadecimal expression to match against data payloads of packets. It understands many kinds of protocols, including IPv4/6, TCP, UDP, ICMPv4/6, IGMP and Raw | https://github.com/jpr5/ngrep|
| <b>PHPgrep</b>  | Grep for PHP source code | https://github.com/quasilyte/phpgrep|
| <b>UCG (Universal Code Grep)</b> | Extremely fast grep-like tool specialized for searching large bodies of source code | https://github.com/gvansickle/ucg |
| <b>MP4grep</b>  | CLI for transcribing and searching audio/video files | https://github.com/o-oconnell/mp4grep|
| <b>Hackers Grep</b>  | Utility to search for strings in PE executables including imports, exports, and debug symbols | https://github.com/codypierce/hackers-grep |
| <b>JVgrep</b> | Grep for Japanese vimmer. You can find text from files that written in another Japanese encodings | https://github.com/mattn/jvgrep |
| <b>LiveGrep</b>  | Online grep search in Github repositories | https://livegrep.com/ | 
| <b>DNgrep</b>  | Graphical grep tool for Windows | https://github.com/dnGrep/dnGrep|
| <b>Greplace.vim</b>  | Global search and replace for VI|https://github.com/skwp/greplace.vim|
| <b>SearchInProject_SublimeText</b>  | Use ag, ack, grep and git grep directly from Sublime Text 2 and 3 | https://github.com/leonid-shevtsov/SearchInProject_SublimeText |
| <b>ACK3</b>  | grep-like Perl search tool optimized for source code | https://github.com/beyondgrep/ack3|
| <b>The Silver Searcher</b>  | Extreme grep-like C+Perl search tool for source code | https://github.com/ggreer/the_silver_searcher|
| <b>Sift</b>  | GO fast and powerfull alternative for grep | https://github.com/svent/sift |
| <b>PRU</b>  | Ruby analog for grep, sed, awk | https://github.com/grosser/pru|
| <b>BlueFlower</b> | Python grep tool for searcing in PDF, DOCX, XLSX, tar, ZIP, bzip2, gzip |https://github.com/veorq/blueflower |
| <b>RipGrep (rg)</b> | ripgrep is a line-oriented search tool that recursively searches the current directory for a regex pattern, similar to the Silver Searcher, awk; but (much) faster |https://github.com/BurntSushi/ripgrep |



<h1>Universal examples of the use of GREP</h1>

Examples of regular expressions for extracting various data from texts can be found in the repository:

https://github.com/cipher387/grep_for_osint
